Welcome to JW Broadcasting®
for January 2024!
In November,
we enjoyed the exciting first half
of the annual meeting program.
Now please enjoy Part 2!
We’ll now enjoy the first of two symposiums.
Each speaker will introduce the next.
So let’s give our attention, please,
to Brother Jeffrey Winder,
who will consider the theme
“How Does the Light Get Brighter?”
In recent years,
the annual meeting has been an occasion
where clarified understanding
of Bible truths, new light,
has been announced and explained.
Of course, it’s not at every annual meeting
that this takes place,
but when Jehovah makes something known,
often it’s at the annual meeting
where it is announced.
Now, will there be new light today?
I think Brother Cook
already spilled the beans a bit,
but we look forward to seeing
what is in store for our program.
But have you ever wondered, though,
‘How exactly does Jehovah reveal
‘clarified understanding of the Scriptures,
new light, in modern times?’
When the Governing Body is meeting together
as “the faithful and discreet slave,”
how does it work?
How exactly does the light get brighter?
How does Jehovah use that arrangement
to clarify our understanding?
Well, first of all,
what do we know from the Scriptures?
Let’s look at four points.
The first one is this:
By what means does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, for that,
we can turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 2
and read together 1 Corinthians 2:10:
“For it is to us God has revealed them
“through his spirit,
“for the spirit searches into all things,
even the deep things of God.”
So clearly—
By what means does Jehovah reveal new light?
It’s by his spirit.
We recognize the key role
that Jehovah’s spirit
has in revealing the truth.
Point two:
To whom does Jehovah reveal
clarified understanding?
Well, for that we can turn
to the book of Matthew chapter 24
and read together Matthew 24:45:
“Who really is
the faithful and discreet slave
“whom his master
appointed over his domestics,
to give them their food at the proper time?”
So clearly, Christ has appointed
“the faithful and discreet slave,”
and it is through this channel
that Jehovah, through Christ,
works to provide spiritual food.
So just with those first two points,
it’s very clear to us how spiritual truth,
new understanding,
is communicated from heaven to earth
by means of the holy spirit
through the channel
of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
Question number three:
When does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, we just have to look back
to verse 45 of Matthew chapter 24.
The slave will provide
the “food at the proper time.”
There’s a clear timing element
indicated there, isn’t there?
And so Jehovah reveals
clarified understanding at his time
when it is needed and when it
will help us to carry out his will.
Number four:
At what rate does he reveal new light?
Is it all at once, like a dump truck?
Or is it metered out, like a trickle?
Well, the answer to that is found
in the book of Proverbs chapter 4
and verse 18
—Proverbs 4:18:
“But the path of the righteous
is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter
until full daylight.”
So the Bible here
uses the illustration of daylight.
And what does that teach us?
Well, The Watchtower  said:
“These words aptly apply to the way
in which Jehovah reveals
his purpose to his people—gradually.”
So just as daylight grows
brighter and brighter gradually,
a proper understanding
of Bible truths comes gradually
as we need it and as we are
able to absorb it and use it.
And we appreciate that, don’t we?
It’s easier on our eyes when literal light
gets brighter gradually.
And so it is with the understanding
of Jehovah’s purpose as well.
For example, think about Abraham.
Could Abraham have handled
and absorbed a complete understanding
of Jehovah’s will at his time
—how he would use the 12 tribes of Israel,
the Mosaic Law, the understanding of Christ,
the payment of the ransom,
the first-century Christian congregation,
the heavenly hope,
the last days,
and details about the great tribulation?
No way.
He couldn’t handle all of that.
He didn’t need it.
But Abraham had what he needed
to serve Jehovah acceptably
during the time that he lived.
Well, we have the privilege
to live during the last days
when “true knowledge”
was foretold to “become abundant.”
But even still, it is released and made known
at a pace that we can absorb,
that we can handle, and that we can use.
And we thank Jehovah for that.
So this is what we know from the Scriptures
and from our own experience as well
about how the light
gets brighter in modern times.
It comes about by means of the holy spirit,
through his channel
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
He reveals it gradually,
and at a time that it is needed.
Well, knowing this, then, we are not
embarrassed about adjustments that are made,
nor is an apology needed
for not getting it exactly right previously.
We understand that this
is how Jehovah operates.
He reveals matters gradually
when it is needed.
And also the Governing Body
is neither inspired nor infallible.
And so it can err in doctrinal matters
or in organizational direction.
The brothers do the best they can
with what they have
and what they understand at the time
but are happy if Jehovah sees fit
to clarify matters,
and then that can be shared
with the brotherhood.
And when that happens,
we understand it’s because it’s
Jehovah’s time for that to happen,
and we eagerly accept that.
But now let’s go back
to our original question.
OK, we understand these things
from the Scriptures.
But, really, how does it work?
When the brothers are meeting together,
how does Jehovah help them
come to a better understanding of things?
Well, that’s an appropriate question
because Jehovah does not intend for it to be
a mystery or overly secretive.
In fact, in his inspired Scriptures,
he reveals examples of when understanding
was clarified in the Christian era.
And a notable example was around 49 C.E.
when clarification was needed
regarding the requirements for salvation.
And specifically, the question was this:
Would Gentile males
first need to be circumcised
and submit to the Mosaic Law
in order to be saved?
This was a significant matter that could have
divided the congregation,
and so it was referred to the apostles
and the older men, the governing body,
at that time.
And in fact, at Galatians 2:2,
Paul states
that “as a result of a revelation,”
he brought the matter to the brothers
in Jerusalem.
So Christ himself directed
that this important doctrinal matter
be settled by the brothers taking the lead.
And in Acts 15, Jehovah allows us
to look in on that meeting
(to be a fly on the wall, as it were)
to hear their discussion
—to see how the holy spirit worked with them,
how they used God’s Word,
how they came to a conclusion,
and then the result
that was sent and conveyed
to the congregations.
And the process
is not entirely different today.
So let’s take a look at what happened
if we turn together to Acts chapter 15.
Acts chapter 15 and beginning in verse 6,
it says:
“The apostles and the elders
gathered together to look into this matter.”
So this is an important matter.
It’s brought before the governing body
of that day.
And then in verse 7,
it mentions that there was
“much intense discussion.”
So it was a lively conversation.
The brothers felt free
to express themselves respectfully,
but they were sharing
their thoughts and opinions
about the different sides of the issue.
And in verse 7, Peter stands.
And maybe this is the point
that is reflected in our artwork here.
And Peter begins to speak
and relates his comments
based on his real-life experience
with Cornelius.
So they’re considering some facts.
And if you look in verse 12,
Peter’s words strike a chord
because “the entire group [becomes] silent.”
And in this, we see humility
—don’t we?—
because none of the brothers
were trying to force their personal opinion
or get their idea approved.
They were collectively looking to Jehovah
for direction on the matter.
Well, this makes way, then,
for Paul and Barnabas
to begin to explain their experiences.
So there were more facts, more evidence,
that they could consider.
And then in verse 13, James speaks up
and he uses the Scriptures
to help the brothers
draw a proper Scriptural conclusion.
He applies Amos 9:11, 12, saying that Jehovah
would turn “his attention to the nations
to take out of them a people for his name.”
Well in verses 19-21,
he recommends a decision.
Verse 25 indicates
that that decision was unanimous.
And then in verse 22,
it mentions that they sent the brothers out
to inform the congregation
of this clarified understanding.
So in the whole process described there,
we see the use of God’s Word,
we see the leadership of the Christ,
and the operation of the holy spirit
working through the brothers
taking the lead at that time.
And so we can see the process is not intended
to be a mystery or to be overly secretive.
And the process today
is not much dissimilar than that.
In 2010,
The Watchtower  explained it this way.
It said: “When the time comes
to clarify a spiritual matter in our day,
“holy spirit helps . . .
‘the faithful and discreet slave’ . . .
“to discern deep truths
that were not previously understood.
“The Governing Body as a whole
considers adjusted explanations.
What they learn,
they publish for the benefit of all.”
So generally the process happens this way:
First of all, a question comes up.
And so it could be that a Governing Body
member in his personal study
or his personal Bible reading notices
something that then raises a question.
Or it could be that a question
comes up during the preparation
or translation of spiritual food
that requires more consideration.
World events might put the spotlight
on a particular prophecy
that then gets closer attention.
So in one way or another,
a question comes up.
And that question is then put on
the Governing Body’s agenda for discussion.
And the question is,
Does this require, or warrant,
additional research?
The brothers are not making a final decision
on what the new understanding will be
but are just asking,
“Does it warrant additional research?”
And if the answer is yes,
then a research team is assigned to provide
recommendations and research
for the Governing Body to consider.
And this research includes
a summary of everything that we have said
(the organization has said)
on the subject since 1879
—all of The Watchtowers
on what we have said.
Also, it includes what the context
of the verse indicates about its meaning.
Further, what bearing do parallel accounts
have on the understanding of the account,
if there are any parallel accounts?
And finally, what impact
does the original Hebrew or Greek
have on our understanding of the verse?
Well, once that whole research package
is compiled,
it’s placed back on
the Governing Body’s agenda for review.
And, of course, once it goes on the agenda,
then each individual member
of the Governing Body under prayer
reviews the information and thinks about it
in preparation for the meeting.
And then it’s discussed as a group
at the Governing Body meeting
again under prayer,
relying on Jehovah’s holy spirit.
Now, when this matter is discussed,
the discussion is not rushed,
nor is the decision forced.
But often, like in the first century,
it’s a lively discussion
as the brothers feel free to share
their opinions and their thoughts
and the results of their meditation
and their research.
But there’s also humility there
because, again, none of the brothers
are trying to force their idea
or are trying to get their thoughts approved.
But there is this collective, unified desire
to see Jehovah’s direction on the matter
and where he is steering things.
The goal is to discern Jehovah’s direction
on the matter.
And often (or at times, we could say),
the final result might be quite different
than what the research package
originally recommended.
But that’s Jehovah’s spirit working
through “the faithful and discreet slave”
to bring us to the right decision.
And the brothers
are looking for a unanimous decision.
At times, it may seem like this
is a solid adjustment,
but if it’s not unanimous,
it just might not be time yet
for it to be revealed.
And so it’s not forced.
The matter is set aside.
And it could be that sometime later,
even some years later,
the matter comes back up
and then it sails right through.
Or maybe it does get approved
but now with a couple of key points
discerned that weren’t discerned earlier.
Well, with this thorough process under prayer
and when there is unanimous accord,
then the brothers
take that as Jehovah’s direction
and then are happy to share it
with the brotherhood.
So this helps us to understand the process,
understand how light
gets brighter in modern times.
And while it is interesting to us
how our understanding is clarified,
what really touches our heart
is why it’s clarified.
Turn with me, please,
to the book of Amos chapter 3.
And notice what Amos 3:7 says:
“For the Sovereign Lord Jehovah
will not do a thing
“unless he has revealed
his confidential matter
to his servants the prophets.”
Doesn’t that convey
Jehovah’s confidence in us?
Doesn’t it indicate his love and his loyalty?
Jehovah is actively involved
in teaching his people,
preparing us for what lies ahead.
He’s providing us with the understanding
that we need when we need it.
And that is reassuring
—isn’t it?—
because as we progress
deeper into the time of the end,
as Satan’s hatred intensifies
and his attacks increase,
as we draw closer to the great tribulation
and the destruction
of Satan’s wicked system of things,
we can be confident that Jehovah God,
our God,
will continue to loyally provide us
with the direction and the understanding
that we need.
We will not be left without guidance,
unsure where to go or what to do.
We will not be left to stumble in the dark
because Jehovah has said:
“The path of the righteous one
is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter
until full daylight.”
Well, with these things in mind,
I invite you to listen closely
to the next two talks.
The first will be presented
by Brother David Splane
and is entitled “Trust in the Merciful
‘Judge of All the Earth.’”
By means of an angel,
Jehovah God told his dear friend Abraham
that he was going to destroy
the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah.
The angel said:
“The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah
“is indeed great,
and their sin is very heavy.”
Abraham was troubled.
He apparently wondered
whether Jehovah had taken
all of the factors into consideration
before he made that decision
to destroy the cities.
So he asked:
“Will the Judge of all the earth
not do what is right?”
Well, we can understand
why Abraham would ask that question.
It was early days
in his relationship with Jehovah God.
He was just beginning
to get acquainted with Jehovah,
and we can hardly imagine him
asking the same question later
when he knew Jehovah much better.
But have you ever asked a similar question,
maybe when you
were just coming into the truth?
Have you ever asked, for example:
“Will none of those
who died in the Flood get a resurrection
“—even those
who may never have heard of Noah?
“And what about Sodom and Gomorrah?
“Will everyone who died
in Sodom and Gomorrah
“sleep an everlasting sleep
“—the women, the children, the babies?
“And was there not one
redeemable Assyrian soldier
“in that band of 185,000 who died
at the hand of Jehovah’s angel?”
We don’t have the answer to those questions.
But we do know one thing:
The merciful “Judge of all the earth”
will do what is right.
Wait a minute.
Did I hear that right?
We don’t have the answer to those questions?
I thought we did.
In the past, our publications have stated
that there’s no hope of a resurrection
for those who died in the Flood
or those destroyed in Sodom and Gomorrah.
But do we really know that?
The men of Sodom and Gomorrah
were certainly wicked,
and they deserved to die for what they did.
But did they know any better?
How often
did Lot and his family preach to them?
And are we saying that if special pioneers
had been assigned to Sodom,
they would have had no success whatsoever
in preaching to the Sodomites,
helping them to turn around
and come to a knowledge of Jehovah?
Can we say dogmatically
that not one Sodomite would have repented
if Jehovah’s requirements had been explained?
And then there’s the fascinating statement
made by Jesus found in Matthew chapter 11
—I’ll give you a moment—Matthew chapter 11.
And we’re going to read verses 23 and 24.
This is interesting
—Matthew 11:23, 24:
“And you, Capernaum,
will you perhaps be exalted to heaven?
“Down to the Grave you will come;
“because [and notice this]
if the powerful works
“that took place in you
had taken place in Sodom,
“it would have remained until this very day.
“But I say to you
“it will be more endurable
for the land of Sodom on Judgment Day
than for you.”
“It would have remained
until this very day.”
Jehovah’s angel had told Abraham
that if ten righteous men
could be found in Sodom,
the city would not be destroyed.
So was Jesus saying
that if he had preached
and performed powerful works in Sodom,
ten righteous men would have been found
and the city would have been spared?
It’s also of interest
to consider Jehovah’s words
to unfaithful Judah
in Ezekiel chapter 16.
Jehovah said that the citizens of Sodom
were more righteous
than the inhabitants of Judah.
So if Sodom is doomed, what about Judah?
But what about the disciple Jude’s statement
that Sodom and Gomorrah would undergo
“the judicial punishment
of everlasting fire”?
Well, that certainly
will prove true of the cities
and probably many of the inhabitants as well,
but does it mean
that there’s no hope for any of them?
Jesus’ statement we just read
would indicate that there is hope for some.
We just can’t be dogmatic.
But again, we can say
that the merciful “Judge of all the earth”
will do what is right.
Now let’s talk about the Flood of Noah’s day.
In the past, we’ve said that any
who died in the Flood
would not be resurrected.
But does the Bible say that?
Now, Noah’s contemporaries
certainly were wicked,
and the Bible says that “man’s wickedness
was great on the earth
“and that every inclination
of the thoughts of his heart
was only bad all the time.”
So those living at that time were sinners,
but did they all get a thorough witness?
Noah and his family
must have been very busy building the ark.
How much time did they have for preaching?
And were they able
to do seldom-worked territory?
We have found that people
who live within ten miles (16 km) of Bethel
have never heard of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
So can we guarantee
that everyone living on earth
during that time knew of Noah
and what he was doing?
We can’t really say that.
And can we say that if someone
had been given an adequate opportunity,
he still would have turned
his back on Jehovah?
We just can’t say that.
Now, of course,
if Jehovah didn’t bring them back,
they wouldn’t have any grounds for complaint.
They’ve had life,
and life is more than any of us deserves.
As you know, when Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah could have destroyed
them right away.
But instead, he gave them the opportunity
to have sons and daughters.
And as a result, we were born.
So the fact that you and I
have drawn one breath
is pure undeserved kindness
on Jehovah’s part.
Now, on the other hand,
for many years it was suggested
that all those who the Bible says
were buried with their forefathers
were going to have a resurrection.
Solomon was one of those.
The Bible says of him:
“Then Solomon was laid to rest
with his forefathers
and was buried
in the City of David his father.”
Well, we reasoned that those
who were buried with their forefathers
were in the common grave of mankind,
and we know that the common grave
of mankind is going to be emptied
during the Thousand Year Reign of Christ.
But we ask ourselves:
‘When Bible writers said that someone
was buried with his forefathers,
‘were they really revealing
what Jehovah’s final judgment would be?
‘Was Jehovah revealing to them
—inspiring them to say—
‘how he was going to settle the case?
‘Or were the Bible writers really saying
‘that this is the way the person was buried
—this is the manner of his burial?’
Remember, in Bible times,
the way someone was buried
was very important.
Joseph and Jacob
refused to be buried in Egypt.
High Priest Jehoiada
was buried with the kings of Judah
because of all the good things he had done.
And when a prophet said that a certain king
was going to have “the burial of a donkey,”
that wasn’t good.
Solomon was the second wisest man
ever to walk the earth.
Jehovah appeared to him twice,
and the second time he appeared to him,
he said: “If you and your sons
turn away from following me
“and . . . you go and serve other gods
and bow down to them,
I will cut Israel off
from the surface of the land.”
What did Solomon do?
He began to “serve other gods
and bow down to them.”
How will
the “Judge of all the earth” view that?
That’s not for us to say.
So we can’t be dogmatic about the prospects
of those who are said to be buried
with their forefathers.
It could be that the Bible
was just indicating
the manner of their burial.
Now, that isn’t to say
that they won’t be resurrected.
It simply means that we don’t know.
The righteous Judge knows,
and we know that he’ll do the right thing.
Well, what do we know about Jehovah?
Why can we trust him to do the right thing?
Well, look at the record.
In the days of the prophet Joel,
God’s people
were in a sick spiritual condition.
They were worshipping the Baals
and the golden calves and the sacred poles.
They were lying,
committing adultery, stealing,
shedding innocent blood,
oppressing widows and orphans.
Jehovah had good reason
to wipe the whole nation out.
And yet, what do we read at Joel 2:13?
Joel says: “Rip apart your hearts,
“and not your garments,
and return to Jehovah your God,
“for he is compassionate and merciful,
“slow to anger and abundant in loyal love,
and he will reconsider the calamity.”
“He will reconsider the calamity.”
After all that,
Jehovah was willing to show mercy.
Now, this is very encouraging.
Why?
Many of our brothers
have no trouble accepting the fact
that Jehovah will forgive the sins
they committed in their ignorance
before they came to a knowledge of the truth.
But if they’ve committed a sin after baptism,
they’re afraid that Jehovah will never forget
and he will never forgive them.
And yet, what do we see here?
The nation of Israel
was in a dedicated situation before Jehovah,
and yet Jehovah said:
‘If you stop doing what is wrong
and if you start doing what is right,
I will reconsider.’
Then you have the encouraging words
found in Ezekiel chapter 33.
Let’s read this.
I find that this is a good passage to read
to brothers and sisters
who may feel that Jehovah could never
forgive them for what they’ve done.
Ezekiel 33:14, 16
—verse 14 first:
“And when I say to the wicked one:
“‘You will surely die,’
“and he turns away from his sin
“and does what is just and righteous, . . .
“[verse 16]
“none of the sins he committed
will be held against him.
“For doing what is just and righteous,
he will surely keep living.”
Now, isn’t that encouraging
for someone who strayed from the truth,
maybe got involved in some bad conduct?
Far too many of these ones
are afraid that Jehovah
will never forgive them.
They would love to come back to the truth,
and they would love to come back to Jehovah,
but they’re afraid that Jehovah
is not going to accept them.
And yet he says:
“None of the sins he committed
will be held against him.”
The case of King Manasseh makes the point.
He was in a dedicated relationship
with Jehovah,
and yet for most of his life,
he did what was wrong.
But when he repented, turned around,
and started doing what was right,
Jehovah wiped the slate clean.
What a marvelous, merciful God we worship!
It shows that Jehovah will show mercy
whenever he sees a basis for doing so.
Now, consider how Jehovah
dealt with the people of Nineveh
in the days of Jonah.
Their conduct was so bad
that Jehovah was determined
to destroy the city,
and Jonah was in agreement with that.
‘Yeah, wipe them all out.’
But Jehovah was more merciful
than Jonah was,
and when He saw
that the people repented and turned around,
He was willing to forgive them.
Why?
The Bible tells us why.
They didn’t “know right from wrong.”
They didn’t know any better.
Will some of those Ninevites be back?
Jesus’ words found at Matthew 12:41
seem to indicate that they will.
He said: “Men of Nineveh
will rise up in the judgment
“with this generation and will condemn it,
“because they repented
at what Jonah preached.
But look! something more than Jonah is here.”
So, what do we see from these examples?
The men of Nineveh, Manasseh, and others
—they were wicked, they did bad things,
they repented,
they started to do what was right,
and Jehovah wiped the slate clean.
Well, today, power for judging
has been given to someone else.
There’s a different judge of all the earth.
And we read about him in John chapter 5
—John chapter 5—
and we’re going to read verse 22.
I’ll give you a moment.
John 5:22:
“For the Father judges no one at all,
“but he has entrusted all the judging
[all the judging] to the Son.”
Jesus has been given authority
“to judge the living and the dead.”
Well, can we trust him?
Can we be sure that Jesus will be merciful?
Absolutely!
He’s the exact image of his Father,
and the prophet Isaiah wrote of him:
“He will not judge
by what appears to his eyes,
“nor reprove
simply according to what his ears hear.
“He will judge the lowly with fairness,
“and with uprightness he will give reproof
in behalf of the meek ones of the earth.”
The authority that Jesus has been given
includes the authority to resurrect the dead.
He’s “the resurrection and the life.”
Now, you know, we often say
that Jehovah God knows everything
about those who have died,
and that’s true.
But since Jesus is doing the resurrecting,
it’s reasonable to conclude
that he also knows everything
about the dead and the living,
and he is going to be able
to resurrect them accurately.
Now, whether he’ll share
the power to resurrect
with his anointed brothers
when they’re raised to heaven
remains to be seen.
We’ll stay tuned.
Well, what’s the takeaway
from this talk so far?
How would you explain it
to someone who wasn’t here today?
You would not say,
“Some who died in Sodom and Gomorrah
“and in the Flood
are going to be resurrected,
and Solomon isn’t going to be resurrected.”
No, no, no.
You wouldn’t say that.
What we’re saying
is that we shouldn’t be dogmatic
about who will
and who will not be resurrected.
We just don’t know.
But we trust Jehovah God,
we trust Jesus Christ,
and they will do what is right.
I know what you’re thinking.
The wheels are turning,
and you’re saying to yourself:
‘Come on, come on.
‘We’ve talked about the Flood,
‘we’ve talked about Sodom and Gomorrah,
‘but what about the great tribulation?
Is there anything
that we can or can’t say about that?’
You know, that’s a good question.
We should talk about that.
You know what?
I think my time is up.
It looks like I have to finish
Brother Splane’s talk.
And I don’t think you want me
to talk about anything else.
So, what is the takeaway point
up to this time?
I’m sure we got the point.
It’s helped us to think about our loving,
heavenly Father, Jehovah,
as the merciful Judge of the entire earth,
and his Son, Jesus Christ.
Yes, we can trust them
to make proper judgments.
We know that Jehovah
and Jesus can read hearts.
And they have a long record
of living by the perfect standards of justice
that Jehovah has set up.
So, what about the future judgments
during the great tribulation?
Is there something that we can adjust
with regard to our understanding?
Well, before we start to do that,
let’s be quite frank.
Over the last few years,
we’ve had a few changes
with regard to the events
that occur during the great tribulation.
And if you’ve been in the truth for a while,
sometimes it’s a bit hard to remember,
‘Was that what we used to believe,
or is this what we believe now?’
So to help us to make sure
that we’ve got some idea
of some of the events
that occur during the great tribulation,
let’s look at this review.
What event starts the great tribulation?
The destruction of Babylon the Great.
That will be the time
when the political powers
turn on the world empire of false religion,
showing their disgust
for the symbolic prostitute.
This will lead to the destruction
of all false religious organizations.
What event ends the great tribulation?
The battle of Armageddon.
That will be the final part
of the great tribulation.
Jesus, along with the resurrected 144,000
and myriads of angels, will battle
with all those who oppose Jehovah,
his Kingdom, and his people here on earth.
This will be “the war
of the great day of God the Almighty.”
Now that we have the start
and the end of the great tribulation in mind,
let’s ask a few more questions.
How long will that time period be
from start to finish?
The answer is we don’t know.
We do know that many events
are foretold to happen during that time period.
But these events may all occur
in a reasonably short period of time.
For this discussion, though,
let’s focus on the few events that will occur
toward the end of the great tribulation.
When does the attack of Gog of Magog occur?
It doesn’t occur at the beginning
of the great tribulation
but toward the end of that period of time.
This attack on God’s people
by a coalition of nations
will lead right
into the battle of Armageddon.
So Gog’s attack will occur
just prior to Armageddon.
When will the remaining ones of the anointed
be gathered and taken to heaven?
The Bible book of Ezekiel indicates
that when Gog of Magog starts his attack,
some of the anointed
will still be here on earth.
However, Revelation 17:14 tells us
that when Jesus battles with the nations,
he will come with those
“who are called and chosen,”
that is, all of the resurrected 144,000.
So the final gathering
of his chosen ones must occur
after the start of the attack of Gog of Magog
and before the battle of Armageddon.
This means that the anointed
will be gathered and taken to heaven
toward the end of the great tribulation,
not at the beginning.
When will the final judgment
of the sheep and the goats take place?
Again, although we can’t be dogmatic
as to the exact sequence of events,
it appears
that the final judgment takes place
at the end of the great tribulation,
not at the beginning.
That will be the time
“when the Son of man comes in his glory,
and all [his] angels with him.”
Of course, there are a lot of other events
that are foretold to happen
during this time period,
but for now,
let’s just focus on these few events,
all of which will happen
just before the outbreak of Armageddon.
What do we learn from them?
First, Jesus’ judgment
of the sheep and the goats
and the destruction of the wicked
will take place
at the end of the great tribulation.
Second, there will be some
of the remaining ones
of the anointed on earth
until the start
of the attack of Gog of Magog,
right at the end of the great tribulation.
Third, the judgment
of the sheep and the goats
will include their dealings
with Christ’s brothers,
even during the great tribulation.
So that is a review
of what we already believe.
So if you were writing down notes
(“oh, that’s a new point”),
be careful what you say to others.
But how do these basic facts
(when we look at the things that occur
toward the end of the great tribulation,
how do they)
affect our understanding
of Jehovah’s judgments
by means of Jesus Christ?
Well, we know that the closer
we get to the great tribulation,
the clearer our understanding
is of what will occur.
Yes, our understanding is clarified
according to the proper time
and also in a way that will help us
not only to endure the great tribulation
but also to prosper
during that period of time.
So, what we’re going to do
is consider four very interesting questions.
Yes, and I’ve got some time left.
The first question is,
Once the great tribulation starts
(we saw there in the chart
with the destruction of Babylon the Great,
so once it starts),
is there a door of opportunity
for nonbelievers to actually join us
in serving Jehovah?
Is there a door of opportunity?
What have we said in the past?
We’ve said,
“No, there will not be an opportunity
for people to join us at that time.”
Now, why did we say that?
Well, basically,
we viewed the account of the Flood
as being a type and antitype portrayal.
And we thought the fact
that the door of the ark was closed
prior to the Flood coming
indicated that the door of opportunity
would close
once the great tribulation started.
But, of course, it’s true;
Jesus did compare the time of Noah
with the presence of him as a reigning King.
But notice, Jesus didn’t say anything
that indicated
this was a type-antitype arrangement,
and he certainly didn’t mention
anything with regard
to a door of opportunity closing.
So let’s think about that question again.
Once the great tribulation starts,
is there a door of opportunity still available?
Well, to answer that, looking at this time chart,
remember, the judgment
of the sheep and the goats
—the final judgment—occurs when?
Not at the beginning,
but toward the end of the great tribulation.
So let’s think about some whom we know
—perhaps unbelieving relatives,
disfellowshipped ones,
others who have heard the message
and perhaps have studied with us.
Could some of them,
once they see the destruction
of Babylon the Great,
decide that what Jehovah’s Witnesses
were saying
is correct after all?
Could they take a stand for the truth?
Well, if they changed
their hearts and joined us,
would we be disappointed?
Now, we can’t be dogmatic,
but we don’t want to be like Jonah
and say: “Oh, no, no.
The door is closed, no, no.”
You see, we need to remember
other cases in the Scriptures that help us
to understand how Jehovah as a merciful Judge
has dealt with people in the past.
For example, think about the Israelites
when they left Egypt.
Please, if you turn with me
to Exodus chapter 12,
Exodus chapter 12,
and we’re going to read
the first part of verse 38.
So here it’s describing the Exodus,
and Exodus 12:38 says:
“And a vast mixed company
also went with them.”
Now—do you notice?—
there’s a footnote there.
And what does it say?
“That is, a mixed company of non-Israelites,
including Egyptians.”
So, what happened?
Well, during the time when the Ten Plagues
came upon the Egyptians,
obviously some of these Egyptians
started to see the distinction
between Jehovah and the false gods
that they worshipped.
So when decision time came
and the Israelites were leaving Egypt,
some of these Egyptians
joined the Israelites.
Now, isn’t that interesting for us to note?
But, of course, we might be thinking:
‘Yes, well, I understand why
we said what we did before,
‘but is it really the case
that all these ones whom we’ve studied with
‘or so on (some of them) may have a chance
‘to join us after Babylon the Great
is destroyed?
‘Is that fair?
Last-minute repentance.’
But, you see, are we imitating
the merciful “Judge of all the earth”?
Really, we shouldn’t be surprised
if that were to happen, should we?
And think about it.
As we looked at the time chart,
we saw that this is
a time period prior to the final judgment.
So anyone who takes their stand for Jehovah
early in the great tribulation
will still face the attack of Gog of Magog,
and that will be a very, very difficult time.
But now, what do we need to note
with regard to this?
Well, just as in the first century,
in 66 C.E.,
decision time came
and many decided to go
and leave Jerusalem at that point.
Now, they made their decision
based on what they already knew
and had heard.
So, in a similar way,
our preaching work today
is of utmost importance.
Let’s notice what the apostle Paul said,
as recorded in the book of Romans
—Romans 10:13, 14.
And as we read this,
think about the context
of what we’re talking about
—when Babylon the Great is destroyed.
So the time prior to that,
we see it says in verse 13:
“For ‘everyone who calls
on the name of Jehovah will be saved.’
“However, how will they call on him
“if they have not put faith in him?
“How, in turn, will they put faith in him
“about whom they have not heard?
“How, in turn, will they hear
without someone to preach?”
Do you see why our preaching work
is so urgent and important today?
Yes, many take the opportunity
to make a decision right now.
But could it be that once
the great tribulation starts,
many who have heard the message
that Jehovah’s Witnesses have preached
may be in a position then
to make the right decision, the right choice?
Well, again, we can’t be dogmatic,
but we certainly hope
that that would be the case.
Now, while we’re talking about this,
let’s talk about the elephant in the room.
Hmm, what do we mean?
Well, you know, some of us in the past
(we’re not going to mention names,
but yet some of us) have said:
“Oh, you know, my unbelieving relative—
I hope he dies before the great tribulation.”
Aha!
We know what you’ve been saying.
We’ve said: “Because if he dies
before the great tribulation,
“he’ll have a chance of a resurrection.
But during?
Uh-uh.”
But let’s think about that.
You see, does someone’s eternal salvation
depend on when they die?
Or does it depend on,
really, their heart condition?
You see, the merciful Judge of the earth
knows their heart condition.
And, really, what are we thinking
if we ask that question?
You know, are we imagining Jehovah
saying to Jesus: “Look, at this person.
“You know, they really should die forever.
“But look at it!
“They died now before the great tribulation.
Oh, no!
We have to resurrect them”?
I mean, really?
Jehovah is the righteous, merciful Judge.
He knows people’s hearts.
You can’t fool him or trick him.
So that was the first question
I’m sure you found interesting, yeah?
Once the great tribulation starts,
does the door of opportunity close?
The answer is, well,
we’ll have to wait and see.
But according to the Scriptures,
it is a possibility that some
can take a stand for the truth.
Second question:
When does the preaching
of the good news of the Kingdom finish?
Good question.
For a start, let’s remember
that the good news is only good news
to us and to those who accept it.
As Psalm 2 mentions, though,
for the rest of the world,
it’s never been good news, has it?
So, what does Matthew 24:14 tell us?
It tells us that ‘the good news
is going to be preached,’
and “then the end will come.”
Let’s look at our timeline again.
What is “the end” referred to there?
Well, it’s the final part of the great tribulation.
So that means that during the great tribulation,
the good news of the Kingdom
will still be preached.
And it’s still good news to us
but not to the rest of the world.
That good news will become
more hard-hitting as time goes on,
causing people to make
a decision one way or the other,
whether they accept the Kingdom or not.
So isn’t that yet another reason
why we shouldn’t be surprised
that some may take a stand for the truth
even during the great tribulation?
The third question:
All those who die
during the great tribulation,
will they go into eternal death
and never be resurrected?
Well, initially, we can say the goats
are not going to be resurrected
—are they?—
because they’re
going to “everlasting cutting off,”
according to what Jesus said.
And in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1,
it speaks of the “punishment
of everlasting destruction”
being meted out.
But what time period are we talking about?
Well, let’s look at our timeline again.
You see, this is referring to the time
when Jesus comes with his holy ones.
So looking at our timeline,
what does it show us?
That this is at the very end of the great tribulation
when people are judged as being goats.
Specifically,
they have been given this judgment.
But there are some other questions
that come up.
You see, these ones who are judged as goats
(those who receive everlasting destruction)
obviously have had adequate
opportunity (have had a full opportunity)
to accept or reject the Kingdom.
But what about those prior
to that final judgment?
So the great tribulation starts.
We’re not sure how long it goes,
but each day it goes on,
there are people who no doubt will die.
Do you realize that every day worldwide
about 150,000 people die
either of natural causes or wars,
sicknesses, and so on?
So, what about those ones?
They’re not actually killed
by Jehovah as a punishment.
So, what do we need to remember?
The merciful Judge knows
who should be resurrected
and who shouldn’t be resurrected.
So we can’t be dogmatic
about those ones who may die at that time.
We know that Jehovah
and Jesus will do the right thing.
Now, another final interesting question:
Will all those living
during the great tribulation
have a full opportunity
to decide either
for the Kingdom or against it?
How would you answer?
Don’t say it out loud.
The simple answer is, we don’t know,
and we don’t need to know
because we’re not the judges.
It’s above our pay grade.
But now, there may be a little voice
in you saying: ‘But why don’t we know?
I mean, I’ve always believed
that during that time, that’s it.’
But, you see, each day, as we mentioned,
150,000 people on average die,
but 350,000 new babies are born each day.
So even if the great tribulation
was only a few days long,
each day you’ve got more babies being born.
And what about areas where the good news
hasn’t reached to the greatest extent,
maybe in lands where our work is restricted?
We might be wondering, ‘Well, will we get
to preach to every individual?’
Matthew 10:23, if you look at it later,
seems to indicate that maybe we won’t.
So, now, here’s an interesting question:
Is it reasonable for us to say
that Jehovah and Jesus
automatically label millions
of people as goats
even though they have never
had a full opportunity to respond?
Interesting question.
If they haven’t had a full opportunity
and they die at that time,
is it possible
that they may receive a resurrection
as unrighteous persons?
What’s the answer?
We simply don’t know.
We can’t be dogmatic,
and we shouldn’t be dogmatic
because we don’t know.
But, rather, let’s take comfort
in what we do know.
And what do we know?
We know that Jehovah and Jesus are merciful,
that they will always do the right thing.
At Ezekiel 33:11, what does it say?
‘Jehovah takes no delight
in the death of a wicked person.’
He wants them to change.
And we know that Jehovah and Jesus
will judge each individual
in a balanced, righteous, and merciful way.
Well, now, at this point, you think:
‘Wow!
That’s a lot to take in.’
Maybe your hand
is a little tired from taking notes.
Don’t worry.
An upcoming Watchtower
is going to give us all the details on this,
so stay tuned.
But in the meantime,
what do we need to keep doing?
We need to keep preaching the message
to as many people as possible.
We have no idea what results
may come from that.
And as we keep on preaching, remember,
leave the judging to Jehovah and Jesus!
They will always  do the right thing,
the merciful and just thing.
Of that we can be absolutely confident!
Well, I was going to ask you,
Wasn’t that exciting?
But look at that applause.
You’ve answered that question already.
That was outstanding and so very touching.
We thank you, dear brothers,
for presenting those parts for us.
Above all, we’re grateful
to our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
who continues
to help us to see things as he does.
And we leave so much in his wonderful hands
and in the hands of his Son.
Well, next on our program,
we look forward
to viewing a new video entitled
Become Jehovah’s Friend
—You Are Precious to Jehovah.
Isn’t that fitting?
Let’s enjoy the video.
Good morning, students.
This is your Principal Rodriguez,
and I’m very happy to announce that soon
we’re going to have
our annual holiday party.
Isn’t that exciting?
So get ready for games, treats, and more.
It’s gonna be great!
Yay!
Oh, yeah!
It’s party time!
OK, everybody.
Settle down.
We’ll see you all tomorrow.
See you there, Sophia.
Oh, wait.
You can’t go.
Well, that’s all for today!
What? Oh, OK, that’s right.
Thank you!
Before I go, we’d like to announce
the award for student of the month,
which goes to . . .
Caleb!
Way to go!
Wow!
Look at Caleb!
That’s my little brother.
With Jehovah’s help,
he tries to be good in school.
I like learning about Jehovah.
Are you ready to study?
Oh!
I’ll get my book.
I’ll meet you outside.
OK!
Hey, Zoe.
Oh, hey.
What ya doing?
Um, I’m just about to meet . . .
. . . Sophia.
Why do you hang out with her?
She’s so . . .
Different?
Weird.
She never does anything fun.
I mean you’re different, Zoe.
But in a cool way.
You should hang out with us—not that loser.
Angela, please see me immediately.
See ya later, Zoe.
Does it bother you
that others think you’re different?
What do you mean?
Some of the other kids say things
like it’s weird you can’t celebrate holidays
and that you can’t have fun.
What?
Who says we can’t have fun?
Of course we can have fun.
It can be hard sometimes,
but it’s good to be different,
like Jesus.
Like Jesus?
Yeah, that’s right!
We learn a lot about him at family worship.
In the Bible, Jesus said his followers
would be “no part of the world.”
What do you think it means
to be “no part of the world”?
Hmm.
Whoa!
T-minus ten, nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four,
three, two, one.
We have liftoff!
That’s a good guess.
But we don’t have to leave the planet.
He said that he did not want
to take his followers
“out of the world” but . . .
. . . that they should be
“no part of the world”!
That’s right, honey.
What else did Jesus say?
“They are no part of the world,
just as I am no part of the world.”
How was Jesus “no part of the world”?
Let’s see!
Jesus was different from everyone else,
and so were his friends.
He showed others
how to be different in what they did,
what they said, and even how they thought.
Really?
How?
People aren’t always nice
to others they think are different.
But Jesus wanted to help everyone.
And that made some people very angry.
They wanted Jesus to be more like them.
But he didn’t worry about what they thought,
because whom did Jesus want to be like?
Jehovah!
That’s right.
Jehovah said that those who obeyed his voice
were special to him.
So when you love and obey Jehovah
and you are “no part of the world”
like Jesus, . . .
. . . that makes you special to Him!
I don’t know if I could ever be like you.
What do you mean?
OK, OK, settle down.
I don’t know.
I-I gotta go.
When you love and obey Jehovah,
that makes you special to him!
Hey!
It’s a leper!
Get away!
We don’t want you here!
What is he doing?
He shouldn’t be here!
Lord,
if you just want to,
you can make me clean.
I want to!
Be made clean.
It’s a miracle!
Can you believe this?
Jesus isn’t one of us.
Jesus was different
in what he did, said, and thought.
I’m sorry about your grandma.
This is for you.
It will help you feel better.
Thank you.
And that made some people very angry.
Uhhh!
Oops, I didn’t see you there.
Are you OK?
Let me help.
Sometimes they pick on me too.
People aren’t always nice to others
whom they think are different.
You should hang out with us—not that loser.
But Jesus wanted to be
like his Father, Jehovah,
and that’s what made him special.
Hey, darling, how was your study with Sophia?
Mom, there’s something I want to show you.
Oh, OK.
All right, everyone,
enjoy the holiday party!
Hey, Zoe,
aren’t you coming?
Let me show you how it’s done.
Hi, guys!
You didn’t go to the party?
No.
I want to do the right thing.
OK.
Let’s have some fun!
Ugh.
Not again!
Well, we certainly cherish
these beautiful videos, don’t we?
Now, with that in mind,
would you like to know
what is happening at the Ramapo site
as well as
the video production in Australasia?
Well, you’ll enjoy this.
Let’s give our attention to Brother Lett
as he provides an update for us
in his part that is titled
“Jehovah’s Chariot Is on the Move.”
I’m glad you indicated you want to hear this.
Second Samuel 15:1
tells us that Absalom,
who was trying to usurp the throne,
had a royal chariot built for himself.
It was pulled by majestic horses.
Fifty men ran ahead of that chariot.
Now, as impressive
as that chariot and rider
may have seemed to many,
compared to the celestial chariot
mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 1,
Absalom’s chariot would be a sluggish,
minuscule rattletrap.
As we know, that chariot
mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 1
represents the heavenly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
Who is the rider of this chariot?
Jehovah himself.
Why is he depicted this way?
Well, Jehovah lovingly controls
the movements of his organization
to accomplish his will and purpose.
No wonder Ezekiel 1:18
describes the rims
of the wheels of the chariot
as having “eyes all around”!
All-seeing Jehovah directs everything.
What is the speed of Jehovah’s chariot?
Absalom’s chariot may have been able
to reach speeds
of up to 45 miles an hour (72 km/hr)
—the speed of a racehorse.
But what about Jehovah’s chariot?
Well, in the Bible in verse 14 of chapter 1,
it describes its movements
in comparison with “flashes of lightning.”
Now, a flash of lightning
travels at 186,000 miles per second
(300,000 km/sec),
the speed of light.
But if we think about it,
Jehovah’s chariot is a lot faster than that.
In fact, we could say
it travels at the speed of thought,
at the speed of Jehovah’s thought.
And obviously
that would be immeasurably fast.
Now, we can’t see into the invisible realm
and see how Jehovah is using
the heavenly part of his organization
with lightning speed
to accomplish his will and purpose,
but we can see how fast things are moving
in the visible part
of Jehovah’s organization.
And that only makes sense
—doesn’t it?—
because the earthly part
is closely related to the heavenly
and is actually a reflection
of the heavenly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
Now, the foregoing discussion
brings us to what Brother Cook mentioned
are updates of two fast-moving projects
that Jehovah obviously is directing,
and we’re going to get brought up to speed.
You like the way I used that
—right?—
up to speed,
since we’re talking about moving.
But things are happening,
and Jehovah certainly is directing matters.
And, as mentioned,
we’re going to have an update
regarding the audio/video facility
being built at Ramapo, New York.
Now, you’ll probably recall
that it’s being built on property
that the organization already owned.
And it’s conveniently located
only two miles (3 km)
from our world headquarters facility
at Warwick.
And a very interesting side point is
the Governing Body tried for several years
(really hard)
to sell this property
with absolutely no results.
Then we came to realize
that this is ideal property
to build a much-needed facility
that can consolidate onto one site
the functions currently being done
on many different properties
—one site to produce
our audio/video and beautiful artwork.
So this is just another example
of Jehovah’s eyes seeing things.
In fact, we think of his words in Psalm 32.
Please go there—Psalm 32:8.
Jehovah says: “I will give you insight
“and instruct you in the way you should go.
“I will give you advice
with my eye upon you.”
Jehovah is obviously
lovingly directing things.
But I’m sure you’d like to see this video now
that will give you an update
on what is happening there at Ramapo.
So enjoy the video.
The specific purpose of the Ramapo project
is to bring all media facilities
under one roof.
As a project begins,
we always want things to move fast.
But sometimes the reality is
that it doesn’t happen as fast
as we would like it to.
It’s been several years
of some pretty dynamic planning,
and we’ve seen a lot of twists and turns
and changes along the way.
We’ve had a number of challenges
on the Ramapo project.
In the state of New York,
there’s only a certain season
when you can take trees down.
We’re only allowed to remove trees
between November and the end of March.
The town board approved the special permit
for us to be able to cut the trees.
However,
when we went to exercise that permit,
we realized that another agency
still had to give their permission
for us to be able to use it,
which we didn’t get.
Originally we had planned
about 12 weeks to do all of this work.
And that 12 weeks
included using mechanized equipment.
If that wasn’t accomplished,
we would be waiting an entire year
to be able to cut those trees.
Well, the window started closing
from 12 weeks to 8 weeks
all the way down to 6 weeks.
And then somehow,
something in the permitting language
opened our eyes to a new possibility
that allowed us to take the trees down
in a different way.
We got permission to cut the trees,
but we had to cut the trees all by hand.
And in four weeks,
we used an outside contractor
to take down all the trees
that we needed . . .
. . . two weeks early
of the end of the tree-cutting season.
Every single day
there’s still much work to be done
to get us the needed permits.
The design is continuing,
and the estimating for the project
is continuing.
That hasn’t stopped.
That hasn’t slowed up one bit.
Because of some of the delays
that we experienced,
there was a need to reassign
some of our brothers and sisters
within the organization.
We had these willing volunteers.
They were skilled; they were trained;
they were willing to do whatever was needed,
but we just didn’t have
the work for them at the time.
We were able to communicate
with different departments
in the branch and at headquarters.
And it just so happened
that many of these departments
had been praying for additional help.
The brothers had a meeting with us,
and they said:
“We know you’re not 100 percent busy
like you want to be.
“We’ll be giving a number of you
new assignments.
“Most of you will go out for a while
while we get our permits and come back.”
They said that I would be going into CDE,
and I didn’t even know what that was:
Computer Department Engineering.
And I thought:
‘That’s way above me.
I’m a construction girl.’
But actually, I’ve loved it.
I’ve learned so much.
And the team that I’ve worked with,
I’ve gotten close to them,
and it’s been a wonderful change.
It’s really shown us that Jehovah
is going to take care of us.
For us to be at Ramapo
was one of the most amazing privileges
we’ve ever had.
But we’re still working for Jehovah
and right in the center of his organization.
These brothers and sisters
are real men and women of faith,
helping to advance Kingdom interests
in all these other areas.
Obviously, when we hit some of these points
where maybe we were waiting on approvals,
the work did not stop.
The time has allowed us
to work with the Bethel departments,
to work with the Governing Body committees,
to work with our outside
expert audio/video design teams.
And so because of that,
the buildings themselves have changed.
It was looked into.
How could flexible spaces be created?
And also how
could some of these spaces be shared
maybe between different departments
to make the best use
of the property that we have?
The Art Department
will be in the same building
with the other aspects of media
—the audio part and the video part—
so that when we need to collaborate,
it will be much easier to work together
and we can make
the very best possible product.
It’s a state-of-the-art audio/video
and art production facility.
The process of designing that
and getting it to stay ahead
of not only the ever-changing technologies
that we see in the industry
but also the needs for the organization
is a dynamic process.
The facility has been designed
and will be constructed in such a way
that if modifications need to be made later
to keep up with technology,
we won’t have to deconstruct the building
in order to implement those changes.
We’ve developed beautiful studios
that will be functional not only now
but also for future projects.
One exciting feature of the media center
will be the use of video walls
for virtual production.
In fact, we’ve already begun filming
with this new technology here at Patterson.
With these video walls,
we can create digital backgrounds
that can be used to give the appearance
that we are shooting it
in a foreign location.
The Governing Body
made it very clear that their focus
was the spirituality of those
who are involved in our productions.
If the friends have to be off-site
for long periods of time filming,
it can really disrupt
their spiritual routine.
Virtual production will allow us
to reduce the need to travel
or to even work hours
that could interfere
with spiritual activities.
There are some circumstances that arise
that can sometimes limit our ability
to travel to another location.
But with the use of the video wall,
we won’t be stopped.
Video production will continue in the studio.
Now we’ll be able
to custom-make some backgrounds
that actually look like Bible lands.
And we’re very confident
that with Jehovah’s blessing,
this new state-of-the-art facility
will result in tremendous
savings and efficiency
as we continue to produce
beautiful videos and artwork
to the benefit of the brotherhood.
But now, that video you saw
was actually a while back, a little time ago.
We have some late-breaking news events
to share with you since then.
When you saw in the video the trees cut down,
they were just lying haphazardly
—weren’t they?—
with snow on the top.
But since then,
contractors have been very busy
removing the trees, taking them out,
and clearing the site in preparation
for other work that will come.
And all of this is preceding
this huge construction project
that is looming just ahead.
So we captured some of that work,
and we also are bringing you up-to-date
with a flyover video clip.
So we want to show you this now
so that it’ll bring you
even further up-to-date
as to how things are looking.
So you saw the trees being removed;
you saw them carving out
the entrance there in the hillside.
So a lot of exciting things are happening.
Now, soon contractors
are going to begin blasting away
large underground rock formations
to prepare the site for further site work.
And according to our current time schedule
—and I think
you’ll be interested to know this—
in the late summer of 2024
(just a few months from now),
Jehovah willing, with Jehovah’s blessing,
we’re going to call in many more volunteers
to help us
to move this project forward speedily.
But dear brothers and sisters,
please remember to pray
for Jehovah’s blessing on these efforts.
But now, as we said, we have another update,
and that’s concerning the exciting project
that is going on in Australia.
As you know,
it’s the series of dramas entitled
The Good News According to Jesus.
Please enjoy this video update.
Now we’ll be able to custom-make
some backgrounds that actually look
like Bible lands.
And so The Good News According to Jesus  project
is the perfect candidate
for the use of virtual production.
A video wall will be installed
and ready for use
at the Australasia branch in early 2024.
There are many formats out there in the world
of Jesus’ life and how it’s depicted.
But our film is so accurate.
The research and effort that’s gone into it
has made it so close to the Bible;
it’s going to make such a difference.
They’re going to see Jesus
and what he was truly like.
It’s going to affect hearts,
and it’s really going to help them
to see Jehovah as well.
As we’ve been working
with The Good News According to Jesus  project,
we’ve run into a few challenges, to say the least.
Right from the start, we had fires,
we had floods, and we had a pandemic.
Because of a number of restrictions
that were taking place at the time,
things were delayed.
There even came a point
when it just completely stopped.
But we did wonder how
we were going to be able
to produce this video
in the time frames
that we needed to do so.
We had to pick and choose which scenes
that we had to shoot first
because construction was trying
to keep up with our film schedule.
So trying to manage
those two together was quite difficult.
Some of the challenges also are depicting miracles.
How are you going to depict
some of the various illnesses and diseases?
How do we film scenes
like the miraculous catch of fish
and Jesus walking on water
in a realistic way?
It’s a weighty responsibility,
but there’s also the amazing joy
of being able to learn
more about Jesus
just through the process
of trying to put it on film.
The Bible accounts that we’re trying to depict
involve a lot of animals.
We know it was part of the culture
at the time.
So we’re really trying to incorporate that
into this production.
We’ve had donkeys,
sheep,
pigeons,
and even camels here at the branch on set.
They need to be trained to work with actors
and trained to be ridden.
They need to be familiarized with the sets.
You actually start to see a bond established
between the animals and the actors.
Fortunately, many of our brothers and sisters
that work in farmlands in rural Australia
had many of these animals that they
were willing to make available for us.
There’s a sister
in a nearby rural congregation
who has volunteered to help raise
the pigeons that we’re going to use
in the temple scenes and other areas.
The sheep love to be around kids,
and they love to be around the cast members.
And it really does make a difference.
All of those animals
essentially lend themselves
to the realism of the sets that we’re in
and help bring the Bible accounts to life.
So one particular episode
required the Judean wilderness.
After reviewing a few options
here within the country of Australia,
we saw that it wasn’t as feasible
as we would have liked for it to be.
After presenting the information
to our brothers in oversight,
we got a response
that we didn’t anticipate.
They came back asking,
“What about Israel?”
A small crew traveled to Israel
and actually filmed
in the real Judean wilderness.
The local branch office provided support,
a number of scenes were filmed,
and now when we’re reviewing the material,
we see Jehovah blessing that arrangement.
The back lot is a huge film set.
It has five historical areas:
We have the temple area and the temple slab;
Jerusalem area;
there’s Cana of Galilee;
then there’s Capernaum,
including a little beach area;
and Nazareth.
The back lot has roads and mounds
—just landscapes
so that we can have a variety of filming.
It was designed in a way
where you can point the camera anywhere.
So it just helps you immerse yourself
into the story and the life of Jesus.
This is a world
that you’ve never seen before.
What’s different
about those sets there in Australia
than what we’re typically using here is
they have to last a lot longer.
To cover the entire span
of the Gospel accounts
requires many, many years of recording.
The brothers and sisters
have shown amazing skill,
and they’ve worked
through some very challenging conditions.
We’ve had heat, we’ve had rain,
it’s been dusty out here,
and it’s been muddy at times,
but they’ve worked through all of it.
And whilst the end product
is this beautiful set,
it’s going to bring
the ministry of Jesus Christ to life
in an incredibly realistic way.
While construction was going,
a contractor came in to the back lot
to see the construction brothers.
He spoke to one of the brothers
and in tears asked what this was all about.
And we explained
what we’re trying to achieve.
And with tears, he said,
“I come from Israel,
and this looks just like my home.”
Seeing someone
who has no idea about this project
come in
and say how accurate it was
really shows me how Jehovah
is really looking after this project.
It isn’t any one of us
that have made this a success;
it’s Jehovah the whole way.
As we study these Bible accounts
and figure out ways
to bring them to life on the screen,
it’s teaching us to get into the motivations
of who these people were.
Our goal is to take them
from being just characters
in black and white
on the printed page
into real people
whom you’re going to know
and love for the rest of your life.
Roll camera!
Roll audio!
And action!
When we recount
the tremendous amount
of work that is being done
to visually portray, or depict,
the Gospels of Jesus’ life and ministry,
we’re thrilled.
We’re absolutely amazed.
And all of this work and investment
is not just for one convention drama.
In fact, this production sets us up
for convention dramas
for years to come in the future.
And you’re going to truly enjoy them
as they’re rolled out.
But now, when we think about
these dramas,
these episodes,
you probably want to know:
‘When am I going to get to see
the first episode?
When?’
Well, you’ll be happy to know
that next year,
2024,
we’re going to have them portrayed
into the convention program as two dramas
—that is, Episode 1 will be two dramas
at the 2024 convention,
the regional and the special conventions.
You’ll enjoy them, indeed.
In fact, we’ve prepared a preview
of those two convention dramas,
and I think you’ll enjoy this short preview.
I know it’s really early
to show you something
for the 2024 convention,
and I hope I don’t get into trouble
with the Governing Body
for showing this prematurely.
Just kidding!
I hope you don’t think I’m that stupid.
It is with the Governing Body’s
full blessing and approval
that we show you this.
So please enjoy
this Governing-Body-approved teaser
for these two dramas.
Seeing that many have undertaken
to compile an account of the facts,
I resolved also,
because I have traced all things
from the start with accuracy.
Do not be afraid, Mary.
You will become pregnant
and give birth to a son,
and you are to name him Jesus.
Let Jehovah be praised,
the God of Israel,
because he has turned his attention to his people
and has brought them deliverance.
For look!
I am declaring to you good news.
For today
there was born to you
in David’s city a savior,
who is Christ the Lord.
Look!
Jehovah’s slave girl!
May it happen to me according to your declaration.
The true light
that gives light
to every sort of man
was about to come into the world.
The dramas over the next several years
will have this kind of realism
and will truly bring
the Gospel account to life
—The Good News According to Jesus.
Now, what you saw was just
a two-and-a-half-minute teaser video,
a little video.
But as we mentioned, we’re going to—
And that was just for Episode 1,
but we are actively, speedily,
fast-movingly preparing more episodes.
In fact, you’ll be happy to know
that we’re working right now
on the next four episodes
after the two that
—the one, really, teaser of the one—
you saw.
Four more are being worked on,
and Episode 3 is almost totally finished.
We’ve almost got Episode 3 done.
The Governing Body
has already been reviewing Episode 1
and an early edition of Episode 2.
And how powerful indeed they are!
And I know personally I can say
that I’ve been inspired;
I’ve been motivated
and even brought
to the point of tears several times.
And other Governing Body brothers
and helpers were affected similarly.
The realism, the impact,
and the power is absolutely amazing.
Well, we’re confident
that you appreciate receiving
these two very important updates
concerning significant fast-moving projects.
And the Governing Body
wants to keep you fully informed.
They really want you to be up-to-date
because we need your prayers,
we need your support,
and we want you to know what is happening.
And we’re confident
that with Jehovah’s blessing,
this is going to be something
that’s going to benefit
the spiritual brotherhood
in a tremendous and profound way.
And we’re just so anxious
to be able to give you more of this,
even though we gave you what we could now.
But some might ask:
“Why are we embarking
“on two projects like this
“when the new world is so close?
“We might not even finish one of them.
The end may come.”
Well, we just don’t know, do we?
We don’t know exactly
when the end is going to come.
Here’s an illustration:
How many carefully selected smooth stones
did David take out
when he went to fight Goliath?
He took five, didn’t he?
How many did he need?
One.
He just didn’t know, did he?
So he was prepared for whatever it took.
Well, in the same way,
we don’t know when the end is going to come.
Now, here’s another thought,
food for thought:
Could not these projects, if needed,
be finished after the great tribulation
and then be used powerfully in the new world?
And thinking of The Good News
According to Jesus  episodes,
would they not be wonderful tools
to teach resurrected ones about God’s Son?
Well, only Jehovah knows.
Time will tell.
But what did The Watchtower  say
some years ago
about the activity
of Jehovah’s people
right when the end would come?
Here’s what it said;
let me read you this quote.
It said:
“The arrival of the Lord Jesus
to execute judgment
“will come as a complete surprise
“—even to Jehovah’s people,
for it will no doubt find them
at their busiest time of activity!”
So we’re going to be surprised.
We’re going to be very busy
when the end comes.
And we say— If the end comes
before we finish
either one of these projects,
then we say: “Hallelujah!
Praise Jah!”
But we’re going to be busy
right up until the end
—Jehovah with his help and his support.
And you think of the scripture
at 2 Kings 13:18.
Jehovah was not at all pleased
with King Jehoash.
Remember, he took the arrows,
he struck the ground three times,
and then he stopped.
Why?
Because Jehovah does not like
—and he doesn’t bless—
a lack of zeal and enthusiasm.
So we want to make sure
we’re zealously working
right up until the end comes.
Well, in conclusion,
we say with your continued support
and prayers in our behalf,
fast-moving and amazing things are happening
in the earthly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
And we give all thanks to Jehovah,
that great celestial chariot Rider.
We give thanks to him,
and we give thanks
to the heavenly part of his organization.
How we appreciate
the direction we are receiving
by means of holy spirit!
You keep clapping,
and I’ll just keep smiling.
That’s wonderful.
That was a very rich series of talks.
And we thank you, dear brothers, very much.
And above all, we thank Jehovah
for how he is guiding us
through all of these wonderful things.
Now, those of you listening
no doubt picked up on adjustments being made
by “the faithful and discreet slave,”
based on Scriptural principles
in Jehovah’s precious Word, the Bible.
Now, at the beginning of the program,
we mentioned
there was
a landmark annual meeting ten years ago.
And now with what we’ve learned today
about Jehovah’s mercy and his judgment
as well as our personal responsibility
before him,
we see the power of God’s Word
and its principles at work, don’t we?
So, then, this program too is truly landmark.
And as one of the branches wrote in,
it is indeed one
that we will always remember.
Now, it’s fitting,
as we approach the great tribulation,
that we now have received
a better understanding of these things,
don’t you agree?
It’s very good.
As Proverbs 3:5 urges us,
keep “[trusting] in Jehovah
with all your heart . . .
do not rely on your own understanding,”
and as we do this,
our heavenly Father promises
to “make [our] paths straight.”
And he is certainly doing that.
And we love him so much for doing that.
Jehovah gets the praise for everything
that has come out in this annual meeting,
and we give much credit
to his dear Son, our King, Christ Jesus.
What a delight to serve
in this way under their guidance!
We are sure you enjoyed
Part 2 of the annual meeting.
It’s always a joy to share
this momentous occasion with all of you.
Our postcard for this month
is from the smallest country
in the Western Hemisphere
—the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
St. Kitts and Nevis
lie in the Leeward Islands
in the eastern Caribbean Sea.
The islands are known for their beaches,
reefs, and tropical weather.
A channel called The Narrows
separates the two volcanic isles.
Mount Liamuiga, at the center of St. Kitts,
is one of the highest volcanoes
in the Caribbean.
Liamuiga is the name given to the island
by the Kalinago Indians.
It can be translated as “fertile land,”
a fitting description
for how the volcanic soil
yields abundant crops.
But St. Kitts and Nevis have proven
to be spiritually fruitful as well.
The good news spread
to St. Kitts and Nevis in the 1930’s.
During World War II, however,
the importation of our literature was banned.
Cartons containing the books
Children  and The New World
as well as the Watch Tower edition
of the American Standard Version  Bible
were confiscated
to be burned at a sugar factory.
Two courageous brothers
worked at the factory
and saved enough books and Bibles
for the congregation.
When going door to door,
our brothers generally don’t knock.
Instead, they call out “Inside!”
to make it clear that they are looking
for someone inside the house,
not calling for someone on the street
or in a neighboring yard.
The people of St. Kitts and Nevis
spend much time outside the home,
working or visiting with family and friends,
so it can be difficult to find them at home.
Publishers look for opportunities to witness
wherever they are.
Tourism makes up a large part of the economy,
with hundreds of thousands
—that is, many times the local population—
visiting each year by cruise ship.
Many of these tourists
will pass one of our literature carts.
Since it’s expensive
to travel to another island
for assemblies and conventions,
St. Kitts has what is called
an expandable Kingdom Hall.
For most of the year, it functions as
a normal Kingdom Hall for two congregations.
But for our three
larger theocratic events each year,
added chairs increase the capacity.
Baptismal candidates travel to the nearby
Timothy Bay for water immersion.
The expandable Kingdom Hall
also provides needed space
for the Memorial attendees,
often three times
the number of the publishers!
The 326 publishers
from all four congregations
in St. Kitts and Nevis
send their warm love and greetings
to the entire brotherhood!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.